# Log Analysis
A [Udacity Full Stack Nanodegree](https://www.udacity.com/course/full-stack-web-developer-nanodegree--nd004) project.  
A python module that connects to a large postgres database to extract statistic data.

## What it Does
This module is a reporting tool that interacts with a postgres database.
It prints out a file containing the results of these three questions:
* What are the most popular three articles of all time? 
* Who are the most popular article authors of all time?
* On which days did more than 1% of requests lead to errors? 

## Project Contents

This project contains the following files:
* log_analysis.py - it contains sql statements to create two helper views and to query 
the database, the python code to connect to the database and execute the sql commands 
and the code to write the output.txt file.
* output.txt - a plain text file that contains the results of the queries.

## Requirements
 This project requires: 
 * Python3 
 * Vagrant 
 * VirtualBox  
 
## How to Run it
Install VirtualBox and Vagrant for your operating system.

Download the Udacity zip file and unzip it. 
Or clone this repository:  
` https://github.com/udacity/fullstack-nanodegree-vm `  

In your terminal navigate to the vagrant directory and type:  
` vagrant up ` and then ` vagrant ssh `. 

(Type ` exit ` or ` ctrl+D ` to log out.)

Change to the vagrant directory: 

` cd /vagrant `.

To load the news database data type:

` psql -d news -f newsdata.sql `


Copy here log_analysis.py and type: 

` python3 log_analysis.py `

There is no need to copy output.txt, it will be generated by running log_analysis.py.



## Licence
No license for this project, feel free to use it.